
*******************************************************************************
*                                                                             *
*            T      E      C      H             T      I      P     S         *
*                                                                             *
*                            O c t o b e r   1 9 8 8                          *
*                                                                             *
*******************************************************************************








  1.    New ASYNC-to-3270  XE  Announcement
        Debbie Hoffman 
    
  2.    A brief discussion on network flow control
        John Reilly 
        **** INTERNAL DISTRIBUTION ONLY ****   

  3.    LOADII and Request for LOADII Username Access  
        Sheldon Cohen   
  
  4.    What is THOST?
        Originally (BNolley)THOST.DOC

  5.    Solo to Isis - Changes to Autologon Support
        John Reilly 


********************
*                  *
* T E C H   T I P  *
*                  *
********************

Debbie Hoffman 
IBM Product Marketing

SUBJECT   

New ASYNC-to-3270  XE  Announcement


ASYNC-to-3270 XE (Extended Edition) Service ANNOUNCEMENT
 
We the ASYNC-to-3270 XE service.  Effective today the XE service is in
limited release.  Please review this document for product features and
information.
 
WHAT IS ASYNC-to-3270 XE?
 
ASYNC-to-3270 XE is our new means of connecting IBM compatible PC's,
including PS/2 and Laptops to IBM mainframe applications while using the
terminal emulation TYMNET78.  When using the XE service with TYMNET78
the PC is transformed into a remote workstation with the look and feel
of a REAL 3270 device while using the asynchronous dial-up port of the
PC.  XE provides for an easy-to-install, software ONLY solution to
ASYNC/SNA connections with world wide access from all countries with
gateway access to Tymnet.
 
****** PLEASE NOTE ******
 
All of the original features of Async-to-3270 that your customers have
always enjoyed are still available and incorporated into the new XE
service.
 
Basically, if the end user doesn't have TYMNET78, they can not utilize
the XE features.
 
XE is going to revolutionize the way customers currently use our
Async-to-3270 service.  With the PC providing local echo and editing, we
have moved a lot of the processing provided by the CMT out to the PC.
Hence, the PC is playing a more important role in our ASYNC-to-3270 XE
service and is becoming a part of the solution we are offering our
customers who need ASYNC/SNA connectivity.
 
WHAT ARE THE COMPONENTS OF THE XE SERVICE?
 
TYMNET78
 
TYMNET78 is a NEW Half Duplex (HDX) terminal emulation that operates
with version 7 of CMT.  TYMNET78 will NOT work with lower versions of
CMT.  TYMNET78 provides local echo and editing functionality because the
terminal emulation is running in HDX, thus, there is no CMT echo delay.
 
TYMNET78 is currently certified for use in the PC software packages
SOFTERM PC, by Softronics and GATEWAY PC, by SCA.  TYMNET78 is an open
terminal protocol that can be implemented by any vendor or customer who
writes their own PC software.  Product Marketing has the TYMNET78
specification document; so, if anyone has a customer who is interested,
please contact Steve Kim at (408)922-7568 or NSCMS.S/KIM.
 
Other vendors who have implemented TYMNET78 into their PC packages
include; DCA with CROSSTALK MK IV.  MK IV is package is currently in the
QA queue for certification.  We will be working aggressively to
implement TYMNET78 in leading communications packages.
 
***** PLEASE NOTE ******
 
Although the terminal emulation is in HDX mode, the modem transmission
is not.  The end user will use a Full Duplex modem and the same local
access numbers they have always used.  There is no difference in the
transmission medium.
	
SOFTERM PC - Will Tymnet Sell Softerm PC?
 
Yes, Tymnet network sales representatives will be able to sell Softerm
PC to their customers who require the local echo and editing features of
the TYMNET78 terminal emulation.  Softerm PC as stated above is
currently the only certified PC package to implement TYMNET78.  Softerm
PC will be available for Tymnet sales people to sell as a part of the
new XE service.
 
All customer Softerm PC software packages should be up to the current
Softerm PC version and revision levels.  The current version/revision
levels for Softerm PC are 3.00.07.  Upgrades for Softerm PC can be
ordered from Tymnet at a cost of $25.00 for 5 1/4 inch disks and $35.00
for 3 1/2 inch disks.
 
CONNECTYM 3270
 
ConnecTym 3270 is the name of the new PC software package that
Softronics will be developing for Tymnet.  ConnecTym 3270 will be the
functional replacement for SMARTYM 3270.  In the first release of
ConnecTym 3270 the following features will be included; TYMNET78 plus a
TTY terminal type, TTY background print capability, single session X.PC,
and file transfer capability to IBM's file transfer host software
IND$FILE.
 
The initial release of ConnecTym 3270 will be available 1Q 89.  The
second release of ConnecTym 3270 will include multiple session X.PC.  We
have no time estimate for the availability of release 2 of ConnecTym
3270 at this time.
 
Yes, you will have the opportunity to upgrade SOFTERM PC to ConnecTym
3270 packages if you wish, for a nominal fee of $25.00.

WHY NAME THE TERMINAL TYPE TYMNET78?
 
Product marketing has decided to call the terminal emulation TYMNET78
because it has the look and feel of a real IBM 3278/79 type of device.
Most vendors who have products that emulate IBM equipment attach the IBM
model number to their product, such as; Packet74 which is a 3274
emulator from Packet PC.  Consequently, since we are allowing the PC to
emulate a 3278 we chose the name TYMNET78.
 
WHAT'S CHANGED IN THE CMT CODE TO SUPPORT THE NEW XE FEATURES?
 
You may be asking yourselves what's changed in CMT code?  Is it just a
new terminal type, TYMNET78 that we're supporting?
 
The answer to the first question; What's changed in the CMT code? This
questions can be answered in one word, ECHO!!!!
 
When the end user chooses the TYMNET78 terminal type, the CMT operates
in a Half Duplex mode and so does the PC terminal emulation, TYMNET78.
 
When TYMNET78 is being used by the end user the PC package is doing
local echo, at the same time it is transporting a character to the CMT
interface screen buffer.  The importance of doing this is that when an
end user hits the Carriage Return the CMT already has the entire screen
and therefore, the end user doesn't have to wait as long to get a
response from the host.
 
Although, we have moved echo control and cursor positioning out to the
PC for processing, the CMT still has ultimate control of the screen
image and will warn the end user when an error condition occurs.
 
Thus, we have made the PC smart, but, the CMT still has all of it's
original processing power and will check data as it comes in from the
end, or host application.
 
The answer to the second question; Is it just a new terminal type,
TYMNET78 that we are supporting?  is NO.  It is not just a new terminal
emulation that brings the XE enhancements to the CMT.  As outlined above
the CMT code has also been modified to operate in HDX mode.  But, to
utilize the XE features you must be using the TYMNET78 terminal
emulation.
 
The two KEY components of the 4 and TYMNET78 are not mutually exclusive,
they must be installed as a unit to get the XE features.

LIMITED RELEASE
 
CMTI version 7.04 will be in Limited Release as of today.  Since the
software is in a limited release state, you are required to send in a
limited release request via ontyme.  This is an ontyme exec file named
:EXEC *** LIMITED.REQUEST.  This request must be received by HQ before
the installation of the code.
 
All CMT customers using version 4.04 of CMT should upgrade as soon as
possible to version 7.04 of CMT.  If an escalation is reported for
version 4.04, we will ask the customer to upgrade to version 7.04 at
that time.  Escalations for CMT version 4.04 will not be accepted.
 
LOGIN INFORMATION

There is no difference in the way an end user will login using the XE
service, whether they are using TYMNET78 or an ASCII/ASYNC terminal.  In
both cases the end user will start in Full Duplex mode, using the same
access number they have always dialed, with the same modems.  The only
difference is that when an end user choses to login with the TYMNET78
terminal choice, the CMT will send a sequence down to the PC to put in
Half Duplex mode.  Both the CMT and the TYMNET78 terminal emulation will
be in HDX mode for that eT will operate in it's normal FDX mode for all
other terminal choices per end users session.
 
INTERNATIONAL USAGE
 
The new XE service will allow a PC running TYMNET78 direct access to our
CMT/HIF (SNA, BSC and X.25/DSP) interfaces without the necessity of
running a Block Mode 3101 emulation.
 
The same local echo and editing features of TYMNET78 are available for
International users.  The TYMNET78 protocol has also been optimized for
data forwarding which can save character charges across the X.75
gateways.
 
When logging in through a true X.3 PAD the following parameters must be
set to get the maximum performance and benefit of using the TYMNET78
terminal emulation.
 
RECOMMENDED X.3 PAD OPTIONS
 
1:1 PAD RECALL :  OFF 2:0 ECHO :  OFF 3:2 DATA FORWARDING CHARACTER :
Carriage Return 4:0 SELECTION OF IDLE TIMER DELAY :  0 (NO idle time
delay.  The data packet will be forwarded on a carriage return, PF-KEY,
PA-Key, or any other control key that the CMT or Host must act on, such
as, the Redisplay key.  Setting the idle timer to 0 helps to ensures
that data packets will be full which is very important especially
internationally where segment costs add up quickly.  5:1 ANCILLARY
DEVICE CONTROL :  Use of X-On & X-Off in data transfer 6:  PAD SERVICE
SIGNALS :  Do not change network default.  7:  PAD OPERATION ON RECEIPT
OF BREAK :  Do not change network default 8:0 DISCARD OUTPUT :  0 is the
network default, do not change.  9:0 PADDING AFTER CARRIAGE RETURN :  NO
padding after carriage return 10:0 LINE FOLDING :  Set line folding OFF.
11:  BINARY SPEED :  Do not change network default.  12:1 FLOW CONTROL
of the PAD by the Start-Stop mode DTE :  use X-ON & X-OFF for flow
control.  13:0 LINEFEED INSERTION AFTER CARRIAGE RETURN :  No line feed
after Carriage Return.  14:0 LINEFEED PADDING :  Do not change the
network default 15:1 EDITING :  1 represents Editing is ON.  This can be
a very useful parameter if used correctly.  The end user will be able to
edit information in the PAD buffer which has not been sent to the CMT.
16:8 CHARACTER DELETE :  8 represents that a Back Space will be used to
delete a character in the PAD buffer.  17:0 LINE DELETE :  Line delete
turned off.  18:0 LINE DISPLAY :  Line display turned off.  19:0 EDITING
PAD SERVICE SIGNALS :  Do not change network default.  20:0 ECHO MASK :
Do not change network default.  21:0 PARITY TREATMENT :  Do not change
network default.  22:0 PAGE WAIT :  Do not change network default.
 
Although we've outlined ALL the X.3 PAD options available for end users
there really are only four options that will make a difference to the
end user.  Those are options are:  Option - 3, data forwarding
character; Option - 4, idle timer delay; Option - 15, pad Editing; and
Option - 16, character delete for PAD edit.
 
INSTALLATION AND SUPPORT
 
As mentioned earlier, to get the new XE features of our Async-to-3270
service you must be running CMTI version 7.04 and be using the TYMNET78
terminal emulation.
 
SOFTERM PC has a user friendly Install Program which makes installation
of the PC package easy for the end user.  Technical Support for SOFTERM
PC will be on an 8 a.m.  to 5 p.m.  (Mnt.  Time) basis.  All enduser
calls should be routed to the customers' HELP desk for initial review
and then HELP desk calls should then be routed to Tymnet customer
service for support.
 
During the initial stages of XE installations using Softerm PC, customer
service will be assisted by STS for problem determination.  Customer
Service will be the focal point for all trouble calls that come in from
customer HELP desks.
 
In following these procedures Tymnet customer service is hoping to
minimize the number of trouble calls that come in from end users.
 
SALES MATERIALS
 
Dirk Heartman's group has already sent out the XE demo tool kit, which
includes a copy of Softerm PC, end user directions, and a copy of the
new XE data sheet to all sales offices that requested a kit.  If you did
not order a kit, please contact Dirk or Cynthia Babcock, for your copy.
 
Our CMT demo has already been set up with the latest release of CMT code
to support the new XE features, and has also .
 
PRICING SCHEDULE
 
Tymnet is NOT offering a site license for Softerm PC or ConnecTym 3270.
The prices listed below are a PER ORDER PRICE.  This means, if you order
100 packages of Softerm PC it will cost the customer $85.00 dollars per
package.  If you enter another order for the same customer 3 months
later for an additional 12 copies of Softerm PC it will cost the
customer $95.00 per package.  It is VERY IMPORTANT that you stress to
the customer that we are not giving CUMULATIVE VOLUME DISCOUNTS, these
prices are based on copies ordered PER ORDER.  It is therefore important
for the customer to be able to forecast their PC usage, and order
accordingly.

Tymnet is offering 3 options for the customer to choose from:  the first
is, the Softerm PC full package; the second is, Softerm PC Diskette
only; and the third is, to order the Softerm PC document only.
 
The prices below are based on Softerm PC sold as a Full Package:
 
                 SOFTERM PC FULL PACKAGE PRICING
 
                QUANTITY                    PRICE
 
                1 to 99                    $ 95.00
              100 to 199                   $ 85.00
              200 to 499                   $ 75.00
               OVER 500                  SPECIAL QUOTE
 
Below is the pricing for Softerm PC sold as a Diskette only option.
There is a minimum of 25 diskettes per order that must be met in order
to qualify for the diskette only pricing.
 
                 SOFTERM PC DISKETTE ONLY PRICING
 
                QUANTITY                    PRICE
 
                1 to 99                    $ 85.00
              100 to 199                   $ 75.00
              200 to 499                   $ 65.00
               OVER 500                  SPECIAL QUOTE
 
 
There is also an option available to order the documentation only.  If
you request this option the price will be $25.00 per document.
 
SHIPPING COSTS
 
All DOMESTIC customer orders that are shipped UPS ground will NOT incur
a shipping charge.  The UPS ground shipping cost is included (for
Domestic orders) in the price of Softerm PC Full package, Softerm PC
Diskette only package, and Softerm PC documentation only orders.
 
All Shipping costs (actual costs) will be billed to the customer for
expedited orders that request special shipping.  The order will be
shipped either, UPS/RED which is 1 day shipping, UPS/BLUE which is 2
days shipping.
 
ALL International orders are shipped Federal Express.
 
SOFTRONICS WILL SHIP ALL TYMNET ORDERS!!
 
ORDERING DETAILS
 
Product Marketing has developed an ontyme EXEC file for ordering Softerm
PC, which is called *** SOFTERM.ORDER.  This EXEC file is only an
interim ordering solution for Softerm PC orders until IOES is ready.
 
Allsales will be notified when the change over from EXEC to IOES is ready.
 
The EXEC file will prompt you for all ordering information, but,
basically you have (5) SOFTERM PC ordering options.
 
PRODUCT SHORT NAME       PRODUCT FULL NAME
 
SOFTERMPC-F5             SOFTERM PC FULL PKG OPTION 5 1/4 " DISK
SOFTERMPC-F3             SOFTERM PC FULL PKG OPTION 3 1/2 " DISK
SOFTERMPC-D5             SOFTERM PC DISK ONLY 5 1/4 " DISK
SOFTERMPC-D3             SOFTERM PC DISK ONLY 3 1/3 " DISK
SOFTERMPC-DOC            SOFTERM PC DOCUMENTATION ONLY
 
INTERNATIONAL ORDERS
 
International orders entered for SOFTERM PC must be accompanied by a
letter of assurance from the customer.  This letter must be filed with
contracts administration in order to have Softronics ship your software
internationally.
 
If you are ordering SOFTERM PC for a domestic customer who is eventually
going to ship the Softerm PC packages to a few of their international
endusers themselves, this letter does not have to be filed.  If you have
any questions regarding this, please give Judy Johnson or myself a call.

WARRANTY AND RETURNS
 
Softronics Inc.  offers a 90 Day limited warranty for Softerm PC.  All
defective merchandise must be returned to Softronics, but, prior to
returning anything, you must get a Return Merchandise Authorization
Number from Softronics.
 
You can get this Return Merchandise Authorization Number by calling the
toll free Softronics Sales number, (800) 225-8590 and asking for Mike
Bay, the Tymnet sales representative.
 
The RMAN must be sent with the returned merchandise so that Softronics
can track serial numbers, inventory, and keep appropriate accounting
records for Tymnet to cross reference.
 
After the 90 day warranty period, Softronics will replace any defective
material (disks, etc...)  up to 9 months.  This will require a sales
administrator to place a Softerm PC replacement order.  This procedure
will be outlined when the IOES system is ready to go.
 
MARKETING STRATEGIES:
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
We see international access playing a BIG role in the marketing strategy
of this new product.  When using the TYMNET78 terminal emulation
internationally, an end user can log directly into the CMT interface and
can then make a host connection to an SNA, BSC or X.25/DSP host
interface.  The same local echo and editing features of TYMNET78 are
available for international users.  The TYM protocol has also been
optimized for data forwarding which can save character charges across
the X.75 gateways.
 
With the introduction of TYMNET78, it is no longer necessary for your
international user to log in with a 3101 Block Mode terminal and make a
connection to the BSC host interface.  So, all of your customers who
have kept their old BSC lines because they needed international access
can now upgrade to SNA.
 
SYNCHRONOUS CARDS
 
Our new XE service will be able to take on the sync card vendors (IRMA,
AST, and EICON, etc...)  in head to head competition.  The TYMNET78
terminal emulation truly has the Look and Feel of a REAL 3270 device
without the costly expense of buying and installing 3270 synchronous
cards and synchronous modems.
 
LAPTOPS
 
The new XE service is a perfect fit for the ever increasing Laptop PC
marketplace.  Softerm PC works with IBM and compatible PC's, including
PS/2, and Laptop PC models.  Since, the Laptop has no physical room for
a 3270 sync card to be installed, XE is a great solution for your
customers who have a large base of Laptop users who need ASYNC/SNA
connectivity.
 
DOMESTIC USERS
 
Not only is XE a great new service to offer your customers who have a
large base of international users but, it also makes a lot of sense for
our domestic customers as well.  The added feature of TYMNET78 with its
local echo and editing capabilities should be of benefit and value to
all Async-to-3270 users.
 
COMPETITION
 
We see Tymnet's direct competition to XE being PACKET/3270 PC by PACKET
PC, Inc.  Compuserve is offering the Packet/3270 PC solution with
PACKET/74 which is a 3274 protocol converter.  The service requires that
either PACKET/74 or PACKET/MAIN (mainframe software) be installed in
conjunction with using the PACKET/3270 PC (PC software, $250.00/per
copy) in order to use the service.
 
PACKET/3270 PC is PC only solution and does not support any ASYNC/ASCII
terminals.  ASYNC-to-3270 XE supports PC's with TYMNET78 and also
supports over 90 of the most popular ASCII terminals.
 
Tymnet is offering the same type of service at a much lower cost (PC
software, $95.00/per copy or lower for larger quantities).  Plus, we
have the added benefit of network resident software, and a more full
featured 3274 control unit emulation.
 
PACKET/74 can be installed on an X.25 link, but, has a limit of 32 Logical units and only supports LU1 & LU2 devices
(there is no LU3 printing support).  Tymnet and PACKET/74 appear to the FEP as a leased line, PU.T2
connection.

********************
*                  *
* T E C H   T I P  *
*                  *
********************

**** INTERNAL DISTRIBUTION ONLY ****   

John Reilly 

SUBJECT

A Brief Discussion on Network Flow Control


Here is some information on how the network handles flow control which
may be of use to you and you customer.  This discussion assumes a CONSAT
to TYMCOM circuit, though much of the information applies to to any
TYMNET circuit.  We break the discussion into two parts:

1. Data is flowing from the host (TYMCOM) to the terminal (CONSAT) 

In this case, it is expected that the TYMCOM will be attempting to stop
output from the host by sending flow control characters (if XON macro is
set).  The default characters sent by the TYMCOM are control-S (XOFF)
and control-Q (XON), though the XON macro allows for other characters to
be used.  The TYMCOM will generate an XOFF character to the host when 64
or more characters have been buffered for a particular port, and will
generate an XON character when there are 15 or less characters buffered.
There are many factors which will determine whether or not this many
characters will be buffered.  These include speed mismatch between
terminal and host port (if the host port is operating at a higher
speed), delays in the network, load on the TYMCOM, and backpressure from
the terminal.  If XON is not enabled, or the host does not recognize
flow control characters, data may be lost due to buffer zaps, especially
if the host port is running at a higher speed that the terminal port.

Similarly, it is expected that the terminal will be attempting to stop
output from the CONSAT (if user logs on with control-R) by sending
XON/XOFF characters, depending on the terminal's capacity to buffer
input data.  If the user does not logon with control-R, or can not
generate flow control characters, there is a risk of data being lost at
the terminal since the CONSAT will pass XON/XOFF as data on
non-control-R logons.

2. Data is flowing from the terminal (CONSAT) to the host (TYMCOM) 

In this case, everything is basically reversed.  It is expected that the
host will be flow controlling the TYMCOM (if RXON is set) by sending
flow control characters defined in the RXON macro (default is again
control-Q, control-S).  Host buffering capability will determine the
flow control thresholds.  If RXON is not set, or the host can not
generate flow control characters, there is a risk that data will be lost
at the host, especially if the terminal port speed is higher than the
host port speed.  It is also assumed that the CONSAT will attempt to
flow control the terminal (if user logs on with control-X).  The
algorithm used by the CONSAT is similar to that used by the TYMCOM,
though the exact numbers depend on the speed of the port.  The CONSAT

will backpressure the terminal when the buffers contain more than 1/2
second of data (60 characters @ 1200bps) and will release backpressure
to the terminal when the buffers contain less than 1/4second of data (30
characters @ 1200 bps).  Again, the likelihood of that many characters
accumulating in the CONSAT depend on conditions similar to those
mentioned above.  If the user does not logon with control-X, the CONSAT
will not generate flow control characters and data may be lost in the
CONSAT due to buffer zaps (or if the terminal ignores XON/XOFF
characters).

One last thing to keep in mind is that both the CONSAT (via patch) and
TYMCOM (via CTSBP option in version 3.01) support hardware flow control
to the terminal/host using Clear to Send signalling (there is special
cabling to provide this support).  CTS flow control is, however, limited
to network to device flow control.  There is presently no means for the
device to flow control us via hardware signals.


********************
*                  *
* T E C H   T I P  *
*                  *
********************

Sheldon Cohen   

SUBJECT

LOADII and Request for LOADII Username Access 

Please be aware that all requests for license to access the Loadii
facility should be sent to the Tymnet Validations Department's OnTyme
address of NSC.LOADII, along with your PDP username and/or gateway
information.  Any additional questions concerning Loadii may be sent to
NSC.LOADII as well.

LOADII is a downstream loading program used to load a binary image of
executable code and interface parameters into nodes within a Tymshare
network.  The binary image is loaded through network communications
links, and may be performed through inter-network gateways.  The binary
image may consist of the ISIS Kernel or any standard node or slot code.
An ISIS node consists of the Kernel, node code, and slot code.

Two main loading operations may be performed by LOADII:  loading a node,
and loading slots on ISIS nodes.  Loading may be performed using LOADII
in any machine once the machine is at least running its bootstrap and
the synchronous line over which the load is to be performed is fully
operational.  LOADII is maintained on a host computer in the network.

When the program is accessed, it will identify itself and prompt with a
colon, ":".  At this point, the operator may enter a carriage return and
the following command options list will print out at the terminal:

OPTIONS

               L - LOAD
               D - DUMP
               T - DIAGNOSTICS
               G - PASS GATEWAY
               X - PASS X-25 GATEWAY
               S - LOAD SLOT
               R - RESTART
               P - PARTIAL SLOT LOAD
               U - DUMP SLOT
               C - DUMP SLOT'S STANDARD CRASH TABLE

LOADII DOCUMENTS                                                            

(techref:38) LOADII.TNU  -  Detailed description of Loadii including the
                            above information.
 
(techref:38) LOADNO.DOC -   Proceddures for loading nodes and slots in
			    Bubbnet and Stagenet, including instructions 
                            and examples for loading Bubbnet nodes.      
     
********************
*                  *
* T E C H   T I P  *
*                  *
********************

Originally (BNolley)

THOST.DOC

WHAT IS THOST?

THOST  is  a  version  of PBT,  the 3270  Polled  Bisync  Terminal interface, 
that  has  been modified to send a pre-defined 3270 message whenever it 
receives data in response to a general  poll.  THOST  simulates the host
application in completing a transaction.  In order to understand this, 
let's look at a transaction in a 3270 native mode configuration:

               __________       _______       _______       __________ 
        To     |        |   +   |     |   n   |     |   +   |        |
       Appl<---|  370x  |-------| PBH |-------| PBT |-------|  3270  |     
               |________|       |_____|       |_____|       |   CU   |
                                                            |________|
                                              (1+) GP------>
                                                     <------DATA (2+)
                                       <------DATA (3n)
                  (4+) GP------>
                         <------DATA (5+)
        (6+) SEL/CMD/DATA------>
                      (7n) SEL/CMD/DATA------>
                                    (8+) SEL/CMD/DATA------>

Remember that PBT looks to the control unit (CU) like a 370x front-end
(FE).  When PBT polls the CU (1+) and receives data (2+), PBT forwards
this data to the host interface, PBH, and waits (3n).  The fact that the
CU sends data to PBT implies that a user has previously hit an AID
transmission causing key.  PBH then sends this data tot the actual FE
(5+) in response to the next general poll (4+).  Remember that PBH looks
like a CU to the FE.  When PBH receives a Select, followed by a 3270
command from the application (6+), it sends it back through the network
to PBT (7n).  PBT, like the actual FE, selects the device and sends the
command to the CU (8+).  This completes one transaction.

Symbols used for figures and text:

     (#) = the order of events in the transaction

      +  = data exchanged over synchronous lines,  using  the  BSC protocol.   
            See  appendix  for  further  info. This data exchange takes place
            during FG execution.

      n  = data sent on a virtual circuit via the ISIS rings.   This is 
           done in BG.

For example, (4+) indicates data over the sync line and it is the fourth
event in the transaction sequence.

Now, let's look at how THOST replaces the host application in the
completion of a transaction.  The synchronous line of the THOST slot is
physically attached to the sync port allocated to the test

PBH slot.  (see appendix for further details) Therefore, THOST replaces
the FE and application.

              _________       _______       _______       ________
              |       |   +   |     |   n   |     |   +   |      |
              | THOST |-------| PBH |-------| PBT |-------| 3270 |
              |_______|       |_____|\___   |_____|       |  CU  |
                                       \ \                |______|
                                         \ \ n  _______
                                           \ \  |     |
                                            |  \| CMT |
                                            |n  |_____|
                (4+) GP------>              |   __________
                       <------DATA (5+)      \  |        |
      (6+) SEL/CMD/DATA------>                 \| CONSAT |
                                                |________|
   
When THOST polls, it is polling PBH (who looks like a CU).  When PBH
receives a general poll (4+), it responds, as normal, by sending any
data that is queued (5+).  Again, this assumes that a user logged into
PBH has hit an AID.  THOST responds to this data by sending to PBH the
next sequential pre-defined 3270 screen (6+), thereby completing the
host application portion of the transaction.  Everything else functions
the same.  How the user logs into PBH is not significant, as the figure
is intended to show.  Only the host end is changed.

HOW TO SET UP THOST
    
You will need to generate two slots, THOST and a test PBH with a
configuration identical to THOST's.

THOST:

The THOST tymfile differs from a standard PBT tymfile ONLY in that it
does not contain any stored elements, strings, or menus.  These are not
needed for THOST.

The THOST commands file differs from a standard PBT commands file
primarily by the inclusion of an additional assembly statement:

';@THOST.M00'.  This is the file that will contain your predefined 3270
messages.  We will go into more detail on defining messages in the next
section.  Another change to the commands file is the deletion of
'PSEG5,P5SIZE;P', the segment that login data is stored in.

See (Techserv:33)THOST.C00, THOST.T00, and THOST.M00 for sample files.
Sample files are also included at the end of this document.

PBH:

This is a completely standard PBH generation.  As always, the
configuration must match the FE configuration, or, in this case, the
THOST configuration.

PBT or CMT:

As illustrated in the second figure, you may access the test PBH in all
of the standard ways.  The only thing to keep in mind if you are
generating a PBT or CMT slot for accessing the PBH, is to make sure your
store login strings are properly set up to access the host number and
configuration defined in PBH and THOST.

DEFINING A MESSAGE FILE

THOST is set up to send 4 messages to a CRT.  Four messages for a
printer may also be defined.  CRT messages must be defined.  The CRT
messages must have the names MX1-MX4; the messages must be defined in
the order:  MX1, MX2, MX3, MX4.  Printer messages, following the same
rule are:  MY1, MY2, MY3, MY4.  You must define printer messages if
there are printers configured on the CU address you will be accessing.

The overall format of the message file is:

     :  Define 4 messages for CRT
     MX1    MACRO [macro text]
     MX2    MACRO [macro text]
     MX3    MACRO [macro text]
     MX4    MACRO [macro text]
     :  Define 4 messages for printers
     MY1    MACRO [macro text]
     MY2    MACRO [macro text]
     MY3    MACRO [macro text]
     MY4    MACRO [macro text]
     
'macro text' can be a message definition or the name of a previously
defined message.  For example:

MX2    MACRO [MX1]

defines the second message, MX2, to be identical to MX1.

The message is stored in EBCDIC, exactly as it would be received from a
3270 application.  In other words, it is a valid 3270 data stream.
There is a halfword of length preceding the actual message.  The EBCDIC
characters are stored using the 'BC' assembler directive.  These may be
nested within repeat loops.

The following macro exists for generating and storing the two EBCDIC
buffer characters that follow the SBA and other 3270 orders:

     SBAC(row,col,linesize)     :normally, row=0-23, col=0-70,
                                :          linesize=80

     eg. SBAC(0,0,$a80) will generate 'BC 40,40'

Of course, you can always use the hexadecimal notation.  That is,
instead of:

		   BC   SBA
                      SBCA(0,0,$A80)

you could use:   BC   11,40,40

Note:  the default is hexadecimal.  You must precede 'row' and 'col'
with '$A' if you are specifying in decimal.

Additionally, there are defined mnemonics for all standard 3270
commands, orders and characters (see table below).

Defined Mnemonics

     :      3270 COMMANDS              
     WCMD   EQ      0F1             : WRITE CMD
     EWCMD  EQ      0F5             : ERASE/WRITE CMD
     RBCMD  EQ      0F2             : READ BUFFER CMD
     RMCMD  EQ      0F6             : READ MODIFIED CMD
     CPCMD  EQ      0F7             : COPY CMD
     EQUCMD EQ      06F             : ERASE ALL UNPROTECTED CMD
     :      WRITE CONTROL CHAR (WCC) VALUES
     :      CRT WCCS
     WCCAKM EQ      0C7             : ALARM, RESTORE KEYBD, RESTORE
                                    : MDT BITS
     WCCKM  EQ      0C3             : KEYBOARD, MDT BITS
     WCCK   EQ      0C2             : KEYBOARD
     WCCA   EQ      0C4             : SET ALARM
     WCCAK  EQ      0C6             : SET ALARM, UNLOCK KEYBD
     WCCN   EQ      040             : NO ACTION
     WCCALM EQ      004
     :      PRINTER WCCS
     WCCPNS EQ      0C8             : NL FORMAT, START PRINT
     WCCP4S EQ      0D8             : 40 CHAR LINE, START PRINT
     WCCP6S EQ      0E8             : 64 CHAR LINE, START PRINT
     WCCP8S EQ      0F8             : 80 CHAR LINE, START PRINT
     WCCPN  EQ      040             : NL FORMAT
     WCCP4  EQ      050             : 40 CHAR LINE  
     WCCP6  EQ      060             : 64 CHAR LINE
     WCCP8  EQ      0F0             : 80 CHAR LINE
     :      FIELD ATTRIBUTE CHAR CODES - NAMING CONVENTION
     :      U/P = UNPROTECTED/PROTECTED
     :      A/N = ALPHA/NUMERIC
     :      N/D/I = NON-DISPLAY/DISPLAY/HIGH INTENSITY DISPLAY
     ATUAD  EQ      00
     ATUAI  EQ      0C8
     ATUAN  EQ      04C
     ATUADM EQ      0C1
     ATUANM EQ      04D
     ATPNN  EQ      07C
     ATPND  EQ      0F0
     ATPNI  EQ      0F8
     ATPAD  EQ      060
     :      3270 ORDER CODES
     SF.    EQ      01D             : START FIELD
     SBA.   EQ      011             : SET BUFFER ADDRESS
     IC.    EQ      013             : INSERT CURSOR
     PT.    EQ      005             : PROGRAM TAB
     RA.    EQ      03C             : REPEAT TO ADDRESS
     EAU.   EQ      012             : ERASE UNPROTECTED TO ADDRESS

     :      3270 EBCDIC CHARACTERS
     ESC.   EQ      027             NULL.   EQ      000
     STX    EQ      002             SP.     EQ      040
     ETX    EQ      003             FM.     EQ      01E
     ENQ.   EQ      02D             CENT.   EQ      04A
     SEMI.  EQ      04E             COLON.  EQ      07A
     DQTE.  EQ      07F             DASH.   EQ      060
     QUES.  EQ      06F             DOT.    EQ      04B
     A.     EQ      0C1             S.      EQ      0E2
     B.     EQ      0C2             T.      EQ      0E3

     C.     EQ      0C3             U.      EQ      0E4
     D.     EQ      0C4             V.      EQ      0E5
     E.     EQ      0C5             W.      EQ      0E6
     F.     EQ      0C6             X.      EQ      0E7
     G.     EQ      0C7             Y.      EQ      0E8
     H.     EQ      0C8             Z.      EQ      0E9
     I.     EQ      0C9             N0.     EQ      0F0
     J.     EQ      0D1             N1.     EQ      0F1
     K.     EQ      0D2             N2.     EQ      0F2
     L.     EQ      0D3             N3.     EQ      0F3
     M.     EQ      0D4             N4.     EQ      0F4
     N.     EQ      0D5             N5.     EQ      0F5
     O.     EQ      0D6             N6.     EQ      0F6
     P.     EQ      0D7             N7.     EQ      0F7
     Q.     EQ      0D8             N8.     EQ      0F8
     R.     EQ      0D9             N9.     EQ      0F9

Sample  screen as it would appear on your terminal,  '%' indicates 
an attribute byte:

     %HELLO CUTIE 1
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
     %abcdefghijklmnopqr~stuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ

Message definition that would produce the above screen:

     MX1    MACRO[HC QX             :must be here, this will be length
     QY     EQ      .               :must be here, start of message
            BC      ESC.,EWCMD,WCCK : 27 F5 C2
            BC      SBA.,40,40      : 11 40 40 (row 0, col 0)
            BC      H.,E.,L.,L.,O.,SP.,C.,U.,T.,I.,E.,SP.
            BC      0F1             :text
     QZ     EQ      1               :start with row 1
            RE      $A23            :repeat outer loop 23 times
            BC      SBX.            : 11 (set buffer address)
            SBAC(QZ,0,$A80)         :row QZ (QZ=1-23), col 0
            BC      SF.,40          :define attribute byte
     QQ     EQ      81              :QQ=81=a

            RE      $A9             :repeat for QQ=81-89
            BC      QQ              :a to i
     QQ     EQ      QQ+1            :increment QQ
            ER                      :end of loop
     QQ     EQ      91              :QQ=91=j
            RE      $A9             :repeat for QQ=91-99
            BC      QQ              :j to r
            ER                      :end of loop        
     QQ     EQ      0A1             :QQ=A1=~
            RE      $A9             :repeat for QQ=A1-A9
            BC      QQ              :~, s to z
     QQ     EQ      QQ+1            :increment QQ
            ER                      :end of loop
     QQ     EQ      0C1             :QQ=C1=A
            RE      $A9             :repeat for QQ=C1-C9
            BC      QQ              :A to I
            ER                      :end of loop        
     QQ     EQ      0D1             :QQ=D1=J
            RE      $A9             :repeat for QQ=D1-D9
            BC      QQ              :J to R
     QQ     EQ      QQ+1            :increment QQ
            ER                      :end of loop
     QQ     EQ      0E2             :QQ=E2=S
            RE      $A8             :repeat for QQ=E2-E9
            BC      QQ              :S to Z
            ER                      :end of loop        
     QZ     EQ      QZ+1            :increment QZ=row
            ER                      :end of outer loop
     QX     EQ      .-QY            :define length of message
     ]

APPENDIX

The  Tymnet end of a synchronous line,  whether it is going to a 3270 
CU or to a 370x FE,  is defined and identified in the Tymfile for the 
node via the sync reference statement:

     SsLl   S.REF(#)                where,

            s = slot number this line is allocated to, this is the slot 
                the PBT, PBH, or THOST will run in

            l = logical unit number, logical units for sync lines begin 
                with  0  within each slot and increment by 1  for  each 
                additional sync line allocated to the slot

            # = the  physical port number,  beginning with 0,  on  this 
                node.  Note that the ports must have full signals, i.e.
                non-primitive.

For example, slot 1 has 2 sync lines that are physical sync ports 10 and 11.
The following statements would be correct:

     S1L0   S.REF(10)
     S1L1   S.REF(11)

Let's  also assume that slot 1 will be loaded with a PBH interface 
and slot 2  will be the THOST  slot  with the following  sync references:

     S2L0   S.REF(6)
     S2L1   S.REF(7)

By attaching physical line 10 to sync port 6 and 11 to 7, we have
created our test environment.  Of course, clocking must be present on
the line, usually at the transmit end.  This can be supplied by the
engine.

This example is intended only for explanatory purposes.  Most test
situations will only require one sync line.

Sample Tymfile for a THOST

     CONFIG MACRO
     [
            SCONF
            DEFLN(40,,0)
              DEFCU(40)
            DEFDEV(40,C1920)
            DEFDEV(0C1,P1920)
              DEFCU(0C1)
            DEFDEV(40,C1920)
            DEFDEV(0C1,P1920)
              DEFCU(0C2)
            DEFDEV(40,C1920)
            DEFDEV(0C1,P1920)

     DEFCAL("0E"01"23"45"67"89"01"23)
            ECONF
     ]
            ENDTYM
     ORGHST EQ      4000
     STRLAB EQ      0     :here to avoid error message from NAD

Sample Commands File for a THOST

            TITLE    3270 HOST SIMULATOR    12-12-84 - bjn
            subttl
     ;@thost.i00
     ;;  this tym file should have the same configuration as PBH
     ;@BB2263.T06
     ;;  define messages in this file
     ;@BB2263.M06
     ;@THOST.R00
     1;FBB2263.N06
     SEGE,SESIZE;PSEG0,S0SIZE;PSEG1,S1SIZE;PSEG2,S2SIZE;P%P%Q

********************
*                  *
* T E C H   T I P  *
*                  *
********************

John Reilly 

SUBJECT

Solo to Isis - Changes to Autologon Support

As we have upgraded many Solo CONSATs to Isis, we have had some
customers who have problems with automated logons.  Two in particular
which you may not have seen are:

1.  Change in the look of the node/port identifier banner.  A Solo
CONSAT will generate a '-node-port-' banner (e.g.  '-7363-036-') while
Isis CONSAT adds the slot number (e.g.  '-2334:01-024-').  This may
cause problems to customers keying on the colon which follows 'please
log in:  '.

2.  In the Solo CONSAT environment, the terminal identifier and the
username can be sent by the terminal as a single string without any
delays (for example, an automated logon program can respond to 'please
type your terminal identifier' with 'ATMCS' where 'A' is the TID and
'TMCS' the username).  Due to interaction with Isis software to provide
speed detection, the Isis CONSAT requires that there be some delay
between receipt of TID character and beginning of username.  A 2 second
delay is sufficient in all cases where the package can not wait for the
'please log in:  '  prompt.

If your customer is creating an automated logon package to access
TYMNET, please refer to *** ASYNC.AUTOLOGON for rules which will allow
the logon to be used on ALL CONSATs.

   CJ-'